.Dd Dec 13, 2019
.Dt mkws 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mkws
.Nd make web site
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar url
.Op path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility uses
.Xr pp 1
and the theme files in the
.Ev MKWSTHEMEPATH
directory
to preprocess all files in
.Op path
in order to produce a static web site in the current directory. If no
.Op path
is specified, the current directory is used instead.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar url
The url of the web site. It is used for generating
.Pa sitemap.xml
.
.It Op path
The path where the unpreprocessed files are located. If no
.Op path
is specified, the current directory is used instead.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width MKWSTHEMEDIR
.It Ev MKWSTHEMEDIR
The directory containing the theme files. See the
.Em FILES
section for the minimum required files for a theme. If no
.Ev MKWSTHEMEDIR
variable is set
.Pa [path]/share
wil be used.
.It Ev LANG
The language for the website. It will be parsed to fill in the
.Em lang
attribute of the
.Em html
element and then
.Em charset
.Em meta
element.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/tmp/vi.recover
.It Pa $MKWSTHEMEDIR/l.upphtml
The layout file of the website. It contains the
.Em DOCTYPE ,
.Em html ,
.Em head ,
.Em title ,
.Em meta
,
.Em link
,
.Em body
elements.
.It Pa $MKWSTHEMEDIR/sitemap.xml
The
.Pa sitemap.txt
template.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Make https://example.com web site using the unpreprocessed files in the
current directory
.Pp
.Dl $ mkws https://example.com
.Pp
Make https://example.com web site using the unpreprocessed files in the
.Ar ~/src/ws
directory
.Pp
.Dl $ mkws https://example.com ~/src/ws
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sh 1
.Xr pp 1
.Xr locale 1
